#labels GettingStartedDev,DevelopmentEnvironment,Workspace
#Follow the below steps to prepare your workspace for Development.


=== Step 1: Download Springsource Tool Suite ===

Springsource Tool Suite (STS) is needed as the IDE. Please download version 2.5.1 (zip) from: http://www.springsource.com/developer/sts. It is recommended to download the zip file as it will be easier to install and re-use.

This will include:

 * Maven 2.2.1
 * Roo 1.1.0
 * TC Server Developer 2.1.0 (Tomcat 6.0.29)

=== Step 2: Download and Install Java Development Kit ==

If you have not already install JDK 1.6 please download and install version 1.6.0_23 from: http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html

=== Step 3: Extract STS 2.5.1 ===

Extract STS 2.5.1 to a new folder in your local drive.

 * Windows

 {{{Example: D:\Development\sts-2.5.1\}}}

 * Linux

 To be updated...

=== Step 4: Set Maven and Roo Paths ===

Maven and Spring Roo paths should be added to the Operating System global PATH variable. This may differ from Windows to Linux.

 * Windows
   
   # Add a new Environment Variable called MVN_HOME and set the value to Maven path. {{{Example: %MVN_HOME% = D:\Development\sts-2.5.1\maven-2.2.1.RELEASE}}}
   # Add a new Environment Variable called ROO_HOME and set the value to Spring Roo path. {{{Example: %ROO_HOME% = D:\Development\sts-2.5.1\roo-1.1.0.RELEASE}}}
   # Add both variables to the global PATH variable. {{{Example: %PATH% = %PATH%; %MVN_HOME%\bin; %ROO_HOME%\bin;}}}

 * Linux:

 To be updated...

=== Step 5: Update STS.ini File ===

Open STS.ini file which can be found inside ..\sts-2.5.1\sts-2.5.1.RELEASE folder and add the below line just before --vmargs.

* Windows: 

{{{
-vm
C:\Program Files (x86)\Java\jdk1.6.0_23\bin\javaw.exe
}}}

* Linux:

To be updated...

This is the path to the Java Virtual Machine. Check your JVM installed location and use that accordingly.

So now it should looks like this:

* Windows:

{{{
...
--launcher.XXMaxPermSize
256M
-vm
C:\Program Files (x86)\Java\jdk1.6.0_23\bin\javaw.exe
-vmargs
...
}}}

* Linux:

To be updated...

=== Step 6: Run STS ===

Now you are ready to go, please run STS.